{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 AndaleMono;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16140\viewh21920\viewkind1\viewscale125
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 New Proposed Standard for Matlab
\b0\fs22 \
\
\

\b Introduction
\b0 \
\
	Matlab is becoming a critical tool in SNL-E.  Currently, the server contains a standard set of code which includes several important functions and clear documentation.  However, some key elements are missing and there is no clear path for expansion.  As a result, several authors have developed private schemes to meet their individual needs, but these code bases are mutually incompatible.\
	We here propose a set of universal standards for all present and future Matlab code to follow.  The proposal encompasses all information accessible in Matlab.  It resolves ambiguities and redundancies of the current schemes, and creates a simpler and easier workflow for users.  In addition, the proposed standard provides a modular framework that can easily be expanded to meet future needs.  If this proposal is carefully adopted, all our code will work together and everyone will benefit.\
	To adopt this new proposal, existing code will need to be updated, both on the server and in our private collections.  We believe the cost of this one-time upgrade is far outweighed by the new proposal's simplicity, modularity, and expandability.\
	This proposal has three main sections: 1) file storage, 2) nomenclature and data types, 3) function style and standard functions.\
\
\

\b 1. File Storage
\b0 \
\
	The proposed standard consists of Matlab functions and documentation.  Both will be stored on the server in /snle/lab/Development/RRS/matlab-source/ .  Matlab function text files will live in this directory, potentially within subdirectories.  Backups will be in a folder called "backup" in the same directory.  Backup functions will keep their file names but be located in a folder with the appropriate date.  The documentation will be in a folder called "documentation", and will consist of text files and intaglio files.\
	Summary:\
\
.../matlab-source/<function>.m\
.../matlab-source/<function_folder>/<function>.m\
.../matlab-source/backup/<date>/<function>.m\
.../matlab-source/documentation/\
\
\

\b 2. Nomenclature and Data Types
\b0 \
\
	The fundamental unit of the lab's data is a single recording.  Obvius calls it a "series", in Vision it corresponds to a neurons file.  Under this proposal, Matlab will store all information pertaining to a single recording in a struct called "dataset".\
\pard\tx1005\tx2185\tx3605\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	Below is a list of the fields in "dataset".  For each field, the standard name is given along with a brief description of what it stores.  These names were chosen to be as similar as possible to the standard currently on the server.  Note that some pieces of information exist for every dataset (e.g. cell ids) while others do not (e.g. STAs).  For the dataset-specific items listed below, we believe these are sufficiently common that they need to follow a standard nomenclature.\page 
\b nomenclature for "dataset"
\f1\fs36 \

\f0\b0\fs22 \
\ul names specifying the dataset\ulnone \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset.	names.	experiment	
\f0\fs20 e.g. '2007-07-05-1'
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		condition	
\f0\fs20 e.g. 'rf-0-mg'
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		neurons_path	
\f0\fs20 e.g. '/snle/lab/Experiments/.../data000.neurons'
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		params_path	
\f0\fs20 e.g. '/snle/lab/Experiments/.../data000.params'
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		ei_path	
\f0\fs20 e.g. '/snle/lab/Experiments/.../data000.ei'
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		sta_path	
\f0\fs20 e.g. '/snle/lab/Experiments/.../data000.sta'
\fs22 \

\fs12 \

\fs22 \ul piece information\ulnone \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset.	piece.	rig	
\f0\fs20 'A','B',etc
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		preparation	
\f0\fs20 'isolated','rpe'
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		map	
\f0\fs20 Mx2 matrix of array map
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		aperture	
\f0\fs20 Lx2 matrix of stimulus aperture map
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		eccentricity	
\f0\fs20 temporal equivalent (mm)
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		distance	
\f0\fs20 distance from fovea (mm)
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		angle	
\f0\fs20 angle with respect to line between fovea and optic nerve (clock face?)
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		array	
\f0\fs20 number of the recording array
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		electrode_map	
\f0\fs20 format TBD, gives the spatial locations of all electrodes
\fs22 \

\fs12 \

\fs22 \ul neurons file information\ulnone \

\f2\fs18 dataset
\fs18\fsmilli9100 .	cell_ids		
\f0\fs20 Nx1 vector of cell ID's
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
	spikes		
\f0\fs20 Nx1 cell array of spike times
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
	channels		
\f0\fs20 Nx1 vector of electrodes
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
	triggers		
\f0\fs20 column vector of trigger times
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
	duration		
\f0\fs20 duration of recording (sec)
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
	seconds_per_sample	
\f0\fs20 typically 0.00005
\fs22 \

\fs12 \

\fs22 \ul EIs\ulnone \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset.	eis.		
\f0\fs20 format TBD, possibly a Nx1 cell array of XxYxT matrices
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \

\f0\fs12 \

\fs22 \ul stimulus information\ulnone \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset.	stimulus.	type	
\f0\fs20 string specifying stimulus type
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		...	
\f0\fs20 [following obvius conventions, e.g. rgb, interval, stixel_height]
\fs22 \

\fs12 \

\fs22 \ul STAs\ulnone \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset.	stas.	stas	
\f0\fs20 Nx1 cell array of 4-D matrices (x,y,rgb,time)
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		summaries	
\f0\fs20 Nx1 cell array of 2-D matrices (x,y), spatial summary of the STA
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		summary_type	
\f0\fs20 string indicating how spatial summaries were computed (e.g. 'svd')
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		contours	
\f0\fs20 format TBD
\fs22 \

\fs12 \

\fs22 \ul vision classification & fits\ulnone \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset.	vision.	cell_types	
\f0\fs20 cell array specifying the classification, see below
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		sta_fits	
\f0\fs20 Nx1 cell array of structures storing sta fits, for format see below
\fs22 \

\fs12 \

\fs22 \ul obvius classification & fits\ulnone \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset.	obvius.	cell_types	
\f0\fs20 cell array specifying the classification, see below
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
		sta_fits	
\f0\fs20 Nx1 cell array of structures storing sta fits, for format see below
\fs22 \

\fs12 \

\fs22 \ul "working list" of cell types\ulnone \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset.	cell_types		
\f0\fs20 cell array specifying the classification, see below
\fs22 \

\fs12 \

\fs22 \ul default values\ulnone \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset.	default_fits	
\f0\fs20 default fits ('vision','obvius',etc), see below
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \page 	Below are several sections explaining the data types that are stored in "dataset".  Each section gives an explanation of the new standard along with a detailed rationale.\
\
\

\b cell_id versus cell_number
\b0 \
	Currently, cells are commonly referenced by their cell id.  While the cell id is preferable for the user-interface, it is not convenient inside of Matlab functions.  For example, to get the spike times of cell id 100, you need to first get the 
\i cell number
\i0 , i.e. the ordinality in the list of cell ids:\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 cell_number = find( dataset.cell_ids == 100 );\
dataset.spikes\{cell_number\}
\f0\fs22 \
\
For a long list of cells, translation is even more painful:\
\
\pard\tx434\tx861\tx1289\tx1733\tx2160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 clear cell_numbers\
for cc = 1:length(list_of_cell_ids)\
	cell_numbers(cc) = find( dataset.cell_ids == list_of_cell_ids(cc) );\
end\
dataset.spikes\{cell_numbers\}
\f0\fs22 \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Under the new proposal, the cell number will become the standard reference within Matlab functions.\
	At the same time, it is important for the user to work primarily with cell ids.  Therefore, in most functions the input argument(s) will be translated to cell number format by a standard function ("get_cell_numbers", see below).\
	This scheme has the potential drawback that translation is still required in the opposite direction (from number to id).  Fortunately, the cell id is used less frequently inside Matlab functions, and translation is very easy, even for a long list:\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 cell_id = dataset.cell_ids(cell_number);
\f0\fs22 \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 cell_ids = dataset.cell_ids(cell_numbers);
\f0\fs22 \
\
Thus the cell number convention is generally preferable to cell ids inside Matlab functions: it works well with commonly-used Matlab variables, and can be easily translated when needed.\
\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 new format for listing cell types
\b0 \
	Currently, cell types are stored in two variables, "cell_type" and "cell_types".  This scheme suffers from three problems.  First, the variable "cell_type" is redundant, which means any update to "cell_types" requires re-computing "cell_type".  Second, cell names can not contain spaces or other reserved characters.  Third, these variables do not permit a cell to belong to more than one type.  Overlapping cell types can serve important purposes, e.g. having two cell types called "ON parasol" and "ON parasol high quality".\
	The new scheme solves all three problems with a single variable called "cell_types".  It is a cell array of two-field structs, e.g.:\
\
\pard\tx1645\tx3573\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 cell_types\{1\}.	name	"ON parasol"\
	cell_ids	[17 114 385 ...]
\f0\fs22 \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
This variable will be stored as a field at several locations in "dataset" (see above).\
	This scheme might seem to have drawbacks that make it less convenient for the user.  These potential drawbacks are remedied by an important new function explained below ("get_cell_numbers").\
	We also propose a standard order for listing cell types: 1) ON parasol, 2) OFF parasol, 3) ON midget,  4) OFF midget, 5) SBC.  If this standard is followed, the user will be able to call "dataset.cell_types\{1\}" and always get the ON parasol cells.  Under the previous scheme ("cell_type" and "cell_types"), the user needed to know the exact name of a cell type in order to reference it.  These names vary, so the user needed to manually check whether it was "ON_parasol", "ON_PARASOL","on_parasol","on_y", etc.  When cell types are listed in the proposed standard order, the user will be freed from having to specify the exact name.\
\
\

\b working list of cell types ("dataset.cell_types")
\b0 \
	What good are lots of cells if you can't classify them?  As we all know, what really separates the primates from the larvae is cell classification.\
	When a function or the user needs to know which cells belong to which type, the standard place to check is "dataset.cell_types".  This field serves two important needs:\
	1) The server contains two cell classifications (from vision and obvius) which sometimes conflict.  It is up to the user to decide which classification is right.  Once decided, the user can put the classification into the field "dataset.cell_types" using a simple function ("use_classification", see below).  By storing the preferred classification in a standard place, functions will not require an extra argument specifying to use the obvius or vision classification.  Of course, optional arguments to a function can still specify a particular classification.\
	2) The stored vision and obvius classifications are usually quite accurate.  However, sometimes the user will want to modify the classification on the fly, and that's why a special field is needed to store the "working list" of cell types.  For example, the user can omit cells that don't meet a certain quality criterion as determined by a Matlab function, or generate a new cell type such as "L-cone ON midgets".  By making a standard place to store these temporary cell types, the user will not be tempted to invent new fields and modify functions to look there.  Instead, all functions can simply use the "working list".\
\
\

\b default STA fits ("dataset.default_fits")
\b0 \
	As with classification, there are multiple sets of STA fits that are desirable in different circumstances.  In addition to the two standard varieties (vision & obvius), some users will need multiple versions of obvius fits.  For example, two sets of STA fits are needed to compare center-only to center-plus-surround fits, or for a cell type like small bistratified cells, with one set of fits for the center and one for the surround.  It is important allow maximum flexibility so that users are not tempted to invent their own private schemes.\
	The standard obvius and vision STA fits will be stored in the fields "dataset.obvius.sta_fits" and "dataset.vision.sta_fits".  Other special sets of fits will be stored similarly, in fields with descriptive name that begin with "sta_fits_".  It will be up to the user to manually put the STA fits into these fields:\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset.sta_fits_center_only.sta_fits = dataset.obvius.sta_fits;\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
or\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset.sta_fits_sbc_surr.sta_fits = dataset.obvius.sta_fits;\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
	To use these fits as the default, the user only needs to specify the flag accordingly, e.g.\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset.default_fits = 'sta_fits_center_only';
\f0\fs22 \
\
Any function that accesses STA fits can look in the field specified by "dataset.default_fits":\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 my_function( dataset, ... )\
% load STA fits\
sta_fits = dataset.(dataset.default_fits).sta_fits;
\f0\fs22 \
\
	For analyses that act on multiple sets of fits, the particular function should read in the names of which fits to use, e.g.:\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 plot_multiple_rf_outlines( dataset, ..., 'sta_fits_sbc_surr', 'sta_fits_sbc_surr' );
\f0\fs22 \
\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 format of STA fits and STAs
\b0 \
	The format for STA fits is different in obvius and vision, and neither format is well suited for plotting in Matlab.  Therefore, STA fits will be converted to a Matlab-friendly format at load time.  STAs will also be converted so that they work well with low level Matlab plotting functions.\
	STA format is a four dimensional matrix, with dimensions x, y, color, time.  This format will be more thoroughly illustrated in an intaglio file.\
	The STA fit format is designed to integrate well with the STA format, so that low level functions can, for example, overlay the STA fit on an image of the STA without conversion.  Details of the STA fit format TBD.\
\
\

\b multiple datasets
\b0 \
	If the user wishes to have several datasets open at once, they should be in cell array format:\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset\{1\}, dataset\{2\}, ...
\f0\fs22 \
\
If they reflect mapped data, standard format is to put the master first followed by each slave dataset.  For more on mapping, see the function "map_cell_types" below.\
\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 3. Function Style and Standard Functions
\b0 \
\
	This section describes standard function usage, how to initially load values into "dataset", and details several important functions.\
\
\

\b Standard Usage
\b0   \
	Most high level functions should take the entire "dataset" variable as their primary argument, followed by required parameters and an optional struct of extra parameters.  For example:\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 function my_function( dataset, <parameter_1>, ..., <parameter_n>, params )
\f0\fs22 \
\
	Having functions read in the entire "dataset" variable is the heart of this proposal.  This usage gives the function complete access to any needed data with a single argument, rather than a long list of arguments specifying each piece of information.  In addition, the user does not need to know the internal data structure, thus creating an easier workflow which is less prone to error.  Most importantly, if the author later decides that the function needs to access additional information, there's no need to pile on extra arguments that break previous usage.\
	For functions that save analysis results, the entire dataset variable should also be read out.  For example:\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 function [dataset] = my_function( dataset, <parameter_1>, ..., <parameter_n>, params )\
\
% perform analysis\
...\
\
% save results\
dataset.new_field = <analysis result>
\f0\fs22 \
\
This usage also has the benefits described above: it creates a simple workflow, and allows for arbitrary expansion without breaking previous usage.\
	One potential drawback of this usage is that a poorly written function can corrupt the "dataset" variable.  For example, a function might put incorrect information in one of the standard fields.  Nevertheless, we believe the the risks of this usage are far outweighed by its benefits.  As always, writers of code must be cautious and vigilant.\
	Moreover, a simple convention greatly reduces the risk of unintentional corruption: save results to temporary variables first, and only modify "dataset" at the end of the function:\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 function [dataset] = my_function( dataset, <parameter_1>, ..., <parameter_n>, params )\
\
% first analysis\
...\
analysis_result_1 =  <result>\
\
% second analysis\
...\
analysis_result_2 =  <result>\
\
% save results\
dataset.new_field_1 = analysis_result_1;\
dataset.new_field_2 = analysis_result_2;
\f0\fs22 \
\
With this usage, any author can see at a glance exactly which fields the function modifies.  This practice guards against the function modifying fields it shouldn't.\
	The argument "params" is optional for the user and it contains optional parameters.  "params" is a struct whose usage is similar to the keyword arguments in obvius:\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 clear params\
params.plot_outlines = true;\
params.outline_color = 'k';\
my_function( dataset, params )
\f0\fs22 \
\
Alternatively, everything can be done in one line:\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 my_function( dataset, struct('plot_outlines',true,'outline_color','k') )
\f0\fs22 \
\
Internally, the function will look for optional fields in "params".  It will use any specified values, and otherwise revert to a default.\
	The "params" argument provides two primary benefits.  First, it is a standard means to overload functions.  Second, "params" can be used to expand a function's input without breaking previous usage or cluttering the list of arguments.  The "params" argument should appear in every function.\
	Below, several concrete examples illustrate the proposed function style.\
\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 load_data
\b0 \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset = load_data( dataset, params )\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 	This function puts all relevant information into "dataset", adding and filling in fields according to the above nomenclature.  Information is only loaded if the appropriate fields of "dataset.names" are non-empty.  If a field is empty, the corresponding information is not loaded.\
	To load a dataset for the first time, the user specifies the parameters and calls "load_data".  For example: \
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 % specify parameters\
dataset.names.experiment = '2007-07-05-1';\
dataset.names.condition = 'rf-0-mg';\
dataset.names.neurons_path = '/snle/lab/Experiments/.../data000.neurons';\
dataset.names.params_path = '/snle/lab/Experiments/.../data000.params';\
dataset.names.sta_path = '/snle/lab/Experiments/.../data000.sta';\
\
% load dataset\
dataset = load_data( dataset );
\f0\fs22 \
\
To save space, the arguments can also be specified in one (long) command:\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset = load_data(struct('names',struct(...\
	'experiment','2007-07-05-1',...\
	'condition','rf-0-mg',...\
	'neurons_path','/snle/lab/Experiments/.../data000.neurons',...\
	'params_path','/snle/lab/Experiments/.../data000.params';)) );\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
If an experiment and condition are provided, "load_data" will automatically check inside the appropriate Index file for the corresponding vision files (params, neurons, etc).  If the user specifies also vision files, however, "load_data" will always load what the user indicates, regardless of what is in the index file.
\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \

\f0\fs22 	If the user only wants to specify the experiment and condition, there is a simpler alternative for calling "load_data":\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset = load_data( '2007-07-05-1','rf-0-mg' )
\f0\fs22 \
\
	If the user only wants to specify vision files, load_data will also accept a path in which to look for vision files.  For example:\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset = load_data( '/Analysis/Greschner/2007-07-05-1/data000/data000' )\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
"load_data" will append various extensions (e.g. ".params") and load any such files which exist.\
	"load_data"  can also operate on a cell array.  If a cell array of dataset variables is provided, "load_data" will operate on each one in turn, and return a cell array.  For an example, see "how to load mapped data" below.\
	In general, it is preferable to load information only as needed.  For this reason, "load_data" has a "minimal" option which only loads piece and stimulus information and path names from the Index file:\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset = load_data( dataset, struct('minimal',true) )
\f0\fs22 \
\
In most workflows, "load_data" should be initially called with this option.  Then later functions should call "require_stas", etc., which load needed data only if it hasn't been loaded already.\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 load_data, load_neurons, load_params, load_stas, load_eis
\b0 \
	In addition to "load_data", there are several commands to load just one part of the data:\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset = load_series( dataset, params );
\f0\fs22 \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset = load_neurons( dataset, params );
\f0\fs22 \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset = load_params( dataset, params );
\f0\fs22 \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset = load_stas( dataset, params );
\f0\fs22 \

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset = load_eis( dataset, params );\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
	These functions provide flexibility and modularity for the user.  If, for example, the user has so far been working only with spike times, and wants to incorporate STAs, "load_stas" can be called without having to look up the file path again (and potentially get it wrong):\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset = load_stas( dataset );
\f0\fs22 \
\
"load_stas" will seamlessly incorporate new information into the extisting struct, and all pre-existing fields, including the results of any analysis, will remain untouched.\
	For further modularity, these functions will ideally call other functions which perform parts of each task, e.g. "load_obvius_sta_fits".\
	Here, the optional set of parameters in "params" might indicate to NOT load a particular kind of data, even if the file exists.  For example, the user might want only the cell IDs, but not the spikes times (which can take much longer to load):\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 dataset = load_neurons( dataset, struct('load_spikes',false) );
\f0\fs22 \
\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 require_data, require_neurons, require_params, require_stas, require_eis
\b0 \
	These functions ensure that particular data is loaded.  If it isn't, they call the corresponding load function.\
	Most functions should begin by calling "require_*" for the data will be required.  The reason to have separate load functions is so that the user can at any time overwrite variables that exist in memory with a fresh copy of the data on disk.\
	This usage is needed to load two kinds of obvius STA fits:\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset = load_sta_fits( dataset );\
dataset.sbc_center.sta_fits = dataset.obvius.sta_fits;\
<compute new fits in obvius>\
dataset = load_sta_fits( dataset );\
dataset.sbc_surround.sta_fits = dataset.obvius.sta_fits;
\f0\fs22 \
\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 plot_psth
\b0 \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 h = plot_psth( dataset, stard_time, end_time, params )\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 	This hypothetical example illustrates an important purpose for the "params" argument.  In addition to optional parameters such as bin size and figure location, it can contain a meta-parameter field ("params.meta").  If, for example, Martin needed very specific settings for plotting a psth in a paper, he could specify them inside the function "plot_psth".  No other users would need to worry about it, and Martin could call the function like this:\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 h = plot_psth( dataset, 'ON parasol', stard_time, end_time, struct('meta','martin_2008_02_nature_figure_1') )
\f0\fs22 \
\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 use_classification
\b0 \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset = use_classification( dataset, new_classification )\
\pard\tx434\tx861\tx1289\tx1733\tx2160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 	This simple function puts the appropriate list of cell types into "dataset.cell_types".  Here's the code:\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 function dataset = use_classification( dataset, new_classification )\
\
switch new_classification\
	case 'obvius'\
		dataset.cell_types = dataset.obvius.cell_types;\
	case 'vision'\
		dataset.cell_types = dataset. vision.cell_types;\
	otherwise\
		error('Only ''obvius'' or ''vision'' cell classification can be used (not %s).',...\
			new_classification)\
end
\f0\fs22 \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\

\b get_cell_numbers
\b0 \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 [cell_numbers, cell_type] = get_cell_numbers( dataset, cell_specification );
\f0\fs22 \
	Functions frequently need to operate on more than one cell.  There are several ways to specify a group of cells, and which specification is best varies for different functions.  For example, a function which makes a collection of serial plots only needs to read in a list of cell ids.\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \
plot_ccfs( dataset, [17 114 385], ... )\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
In other cases, functions need to know what kinds of cells they are operating on.  For example, a function that computes the conformity ratio should display the name of the cell type alongside the result.  If the function did not know the cell type, the user would need to manually keep track of which output corresponded to which input, a workflow that invites error.\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 \
compute_conformity_ratio( dataset, 'ON parasol', ... )\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
Finally, some functions need to read in several cell types.  For example, a function that overlays the average RF profiles of several types needs a list of cell types.\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 \
compare_rf_profiles( dataset, \{'ON parasol','OFF parasol'\}, ... )
\f0\fs22 \
\
Specifying cells with such flexibility is important for users.  However, it can be daunting for the code to handle so many cases.\
	This proposal provides complete flexibility with a single function, "get_cell_numbers".  This function takes in one argument, "cell_specification", which can be a list of cells, the name of a cell type, or a list of names.  It returns the desired cell numbers, along with the name(s) of the specified cell type(s), if applicable.  Here is the form of the function, followed by some examples:\
\
\

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 [cell_numbers, cell_type] = get_cell_numbers( dataset, cell_specification )\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 cell_specification = 'OFF parasol'  >>>\
\
cell_numbers = [1 3 5 8 15]\
cell_type = 'OFF parasol' \
\
\
cell_specification = [17 114 385]  >>>\
\
cell_numbers = [1 2 4]\
cell_type = []  % if no name is specified, the field is empty\
\
\
cell_specification = \{'ON parasol','OFF parasol'\}  >>>\
\
% if a list of names is given, a list of numbers and\
% names is returned as a cell array\
\
cell_numbers\{1\} = [2 4 7 16]\
cell_type\{1\} = 'ON parasol'\
cell_numbers\{2\} = [1 3 5 8 15]\
cell_type\{2\} = 'OFF parasol'\
\
\
cell_specification =  \{1,2\}  >>>\
\
% if a cell array of numbers is given, it is interpreted as\
% the ordinal number of the desired cell type\
\
cell_numbers\{1\} = [2 4 7 16]\
cell_type\{1\} = 'ON parasol'\
cell_numbers\{2\} = [1 3 5 8 15]\
cell_type\{2\} = 'OFF parasol'\
\
\
cell_specification =  \{1\}  >>>\
\
% if there's only one element in the list, the function\
% does not return a cell array \
\
cell_numbers = [2 4 7 16]\
cell_type = 'ON parasol'\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
\
	For most functions, the first or second usage is appropriate.  "get_cell_numbers" can be easily incorporated into existing functions by prepending a brief boilerplate:\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 \
\pard\tx434\tx861\tx1289\tx1733\tx2160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 my_simple_function( dataset, cell_specification, params )\
\
% get cell numbers\
cell_numbers = get_cell_numbers( cell_specification );\
% if it's a cell array, reject\
if class(cell_numbers) == 'cell'  \
	error('This function only accepts a single list of cells.');\
end\
\
...\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0  
\f0\fs22 \
This usage can be seamlessly integrated with any current functions that don't care about cell type.  At the same time, "get_cell_numbers" serves other functions for which knowing cell type names are critical.\
	The proposed code for "get_cell_numbers" is in an appendix below.\
\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 "map_cell_types"
\b0 \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 dataset = map_cell_types( dataset, 1, 2);
\f0\fs22 \
	This function applies the classification of one dataset to other datasets.  It assumes that the datasets are collected in a cell array.  The user specifies which dataset's classification to use, and which others to apply it to (example below).  This is designed for datasets in which the neurons files have been mapped.\
	Note that "map_cell_types" only copies the working list of cell types.  If slave datasets have their own classification, it will be preserved in the usual place (e.g. "dataset.obvius.cell_types").\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \
\
how to load mapped data
\b0 \
	The standard format for mapped data is to collect all mapped datasets in a single cell array.  The master and slave datasets can occupy any position, though it might be easiest to keep track of if the master were placed at position 1 with slave datasets at subsequent positions.  However, this is not a requirement, and functions which operate on mapped data should NOT assume the master is listed first.\
	After loading the master and slave data, cell types can be mapped using "map_cell_types".\
	Here is an example of how to load mapped data:\

\b \
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\b0\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 clear dataset\
\
% specify master\
dataset\{1\}.names.experiment = '2007-07-05-1';\
dataset\{1\}.names.condition = 'rf-0-mg';\
\
% specify slave\
dataset\{2\}.names.experiment = '2007-07-05-1';\
dataset\{2\}.names.condition = 'rf-1-mapped-0-mg';\
\
% load master and slave\
dataset = load_data( dataset );\
\
% apply master classification to slave\
dataset = map_cell_types( dataset, 1, 2);
\f0\fs22 \
\
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Closing
\b0 \
\
	This proposal aims to make the Matlab code as simple, modular, inclusive, and expandable as possible.  Internally, a single, parallel structure stores all data and analysis, making them accessible to every function.  Externally, the user can operate on the data without worrying about its internal details.  In the future, the proposed structures can be easily expanded to incorporate new needs.\
	In short, we believe this new proposal can serve SNL-E's Matlab needs indefinitely.
\b \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx466\tx973\tx2233\tx3493\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Appendix\
code for "get_cell_numbers"
\b0 \
	In a few places, a description of code yet to be written is summarized between "<" and ">".\
\
\pard\tx434\tx861\tx1289\tx1733\tx2160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18\fsmilli9100 \cf0 function [cell_numbers, cell_type] = get_cell_numbers( dataset, cell_specification )\
\
switch class(cell_specification)\
\
	case 'double'  % a list of cell numbers\
		cell_numbers = cell_ids_to_cell_numbers(cell_specification);\
		cell_type = [];\
\
	case 'char'  % a cell type name\
		[cell_numbers, cell_type] = get_cell_numbers_by_type( dataset, cell_specification);\
\
	case 'cell'  % a list of names or cell type numbers\
		% handle one element of the list at a time\
		for cc = 1:length(cell_specification)\
			[ cell_numbers\{cc\}, cell_type\{cc\} ] = ...\
				get_cell_numbers_by_type( dataset, cell_specification\{cc\} );\
		end\
\
		% if only one cell type was specified, don't return a cell array\
		if length(cell_specification) == 1\
			cell_numbers = cell_numbers\{1\};\
			cell_type = cell_type\{1\};\
		end\
\
	otherwise\
		<give an appropriate error>\
end\
\
\
function [cell_numbers, cell_type] = get_cell_numbers_by_type( dataset, cell_specification );\
% internal function\
% return the cell numbers of the type specified in 'cell_specification'\
\
switch type(cell_specification)\
	case 'char'\
		<loop through cell types looking for a type with the given name>\
		cell_type_number = <result>;\
	case 'number'\
		cell_type_number = cell_specification;\
	otherwise\
		<give an appropriate error>\
end\
\
cell_numbers = cell_ids_to_cell_numbers(dataset.cell_types\{cell_type_number\}.cell_numbers);\
cell_type = dataset.cell_types\{cell_type_number\}.name;\
\
\
function [cell_numbers] = cell_ids_to_cell_numbers( cell_ids )\
% internal function\
< perform the conversion using 'find' >}