{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17140\viewh22220\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \

\b proposed nomenclature for storing data in matlab
\b0 \
\
	Matlab is becoming a critical tool in SNL-E.  Unfortunately, there is no documented standard for importing or accessing our data in matlab.  As a result, several authors have developed several incompatible schemes.\
	I here propose a standard nomenclature that all future matlab code can follow.  The proposed nomenclature attempts to encompass all information that is commonly accessed, resolving ambiguities and redundancies of the current individual schemes.  As new kinds of analyses crop up (e.g. vectors between EIs and STAs), the nomenclature and documentation should be expanded to include them.  If we take these standards seriously, all our code will work together, and that will rock.\
	Inevitably, some of the proposed names are incompatible with code written by various authors in the lab.  Fortunately, there is a simple solution to support legacy code: translator functions can be written to convert data stored using the standard nomenclature to the individual author's nomenclature.\
	The fundamental unit of our lab's data is a neurons file.  This proposal gives field names for a matlab struct that corresponds to a single neurons file.  The names include information in that neurons file as well as kinds of information which are based on it, such as cell classification and EIs.\
	The proposed names follow a single guiding principle: don't create new information, only represent what already exists.  As such, the names closely follow what's on disk, e.g. there is one list of cell ids, but two kinds of classification (vision & obvius).\
	I have divided the data into two classes: "basic" and "extra".  "Basic data" is information that theoretically exists for every dataset (e.g. neurons and spike times).  "Extra data" is information found in only some datasets (e.g. STAs).  Although it's dataset-specific, this information is sufficiently common that it should follow a standard nomenclature.\
	Several categories of "basic data" and "extra data" are listed below.  Ideally, each category will have one function to load only that information from disk.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs48 \cf0 basic data (applicable to all datasets)
\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 file paths
\b0 \

\f1\fs24 dataset.	files.	neurons\
				sta\
				params\
				ei
\f0\fs32 \
\

\b neurons file information
\b0 \

\f1\fs24 dataset.	neurons.	cell_ids\
				spikes\
				channels\
				triggers\
				duration
\f0\fs32 \
\

\b stimulus information
\b0 \

\f1\fs24 dataset.	stimulus.	type\
				... [following obvius conventions, e.g. rgb, interval]
\f0\fs32 \
\

\b vision classification & fits
\b0 \

\f1\fs24 dataset.	vision.	cell_types\
				cell_type\
				sta_fits
\f0\fs32 \
\

\b obvius classification & fits (allows multiple conditions)
\b0 \

\f1\fs24 dataset.	obvius\{\}.	experiment\
				condition\
				cell_types\
				cell_type\
				sta_fits
\f0\fs32 \

\b EIs
\b0 \

\f1\fs24 dataset.	eis.		eis\
				seconds_per_sample
\f0\fs32 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs48 \cf0 extra data
\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 stas
\b0 \

\f1\fs24 dataset.	stas.		summaries\
				summary_type\
				[various custom summary frames, e.g. svd_regressed]\
				[contours?]\

\f0\fs32 \
\
}